# MariaDB

This article serves as a comprehensive guide, providing step-by-step instructions on adding MariaDB to Tapdata Cloud, enabling efficient data synchronization and development for your projects.


## Supported versions

MariaDB 10.x

## Prerequisites (as the source)

### Enable Binlog

- Binlog must be enabled on MariaDB for Tapdata to successfully complete synchronization tasks.
- Cascade deletion (CASCADE DELETE) generated by the database is not supported because it is not recorded in the binlog. Modify `$MYSQL_HOME/mysql.cnf `, For example:

```
server_id         = 223344
log_bin           = mysql-bin
expire_logs_days  = 1
binlog_format     = row
```

Configuration explanation：
server-id: For MariaDB, each server and replication client must have a unique identifier.
binlog_format：It must be set to "row" or "ROW".
expire_logs_days：The number of days to retain binary log files. They will be automatically deleted upon expiration.
log_bin：The base name of the binlog sequence files.

### Restart MariaDB

```
/etc/inint.d/mysqld restart
```

To verify that binlog is enabled, please execute the following command in the MySQL shell:

```
show variables like 'binlog_format';
```

In the output result, the format value should be 'ROW'.

### Create a MariaDB account


```
create user 'username'@'localhost' identified by 'password';
```

### Grant permissions to the tapdata account

Grant the SELECT privilege to a specific database.

```
GRANT SELECT, SHOW VIEW, CREATE ROUTINE, LOCK TABLES ON <DATABASE_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME> TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```

Grant global privileges.

```
GRANT RELOAD, SHOW DATABASES, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SUPER ON *.* TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```

##  Prerequisites (as the target)

Grant all privileges to a specific database.

```
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON <DATABASE_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME> TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```

Grant global privileges.

```
GRANT PROCESS ON *.* TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```